Create GLOSSARY.md (#14)
MPEGGroup/OpenFontFormat: GLOSSARY.md

## Glossary

[Early draft, please add new definitions, fix the existing ones, add links and correct organizational details!]

* **AFDKO** [Adobe Font Development Kit for OpenType](http://adobe-type-tools.github.io/afdko/AFDKO-Overview.html).
* **AHG** ad-hoc group, a group of people representing multiple stakeholders, who meet informally to discuss technical proposals (example: the AHG who got together in 2015–2016 and made OpenType Variations happen), perhaps bypassing corporate policies on formal meetings.
* **CG** Community Group, in a font technology context probably the W3C Font and Text Community Group established 2020.
* **FEA** OpenType Feature File (extension .fea), [afdko: OpenType™ Feature File Specification](http://adobe-type-tools.github.io/afdko/OpenTypeFeatureFileSpecification.html).

> * **FEE** ???

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **FEE** Font Engineering language with Extensibility, a language for creating font feature code that can be compiled to FEA using [fontFeatures](https://github.com/simoncozens/fontFeatures/blob/master/docs/fee-format.rst).
```

> * **FEE** Font Engineering language with Extensibility, a language for creating font feature code that can be compiled to FEA using [fontFeatures](https://github.com/simoncozens/fontFeatures/blob/master/docs/fee-format.rst).

Reviewer 2: Is that the authoritative URL for FEE? I find it slightly surprising to have a link to a personal page.

Reviewer: I have to imagine someday FEE would be split out into an independent project, but given that the personal page in question is that of the inventor and implementer I think the surprise factor should be pretty small. I guess we can ask @simoncozens if he has any other URL that would be better to document what FEE is, but that was the best one I could find.

Reviewer 3: No, I think that's the best URL. If it ever moves, we can change the glossary...

* **FTCG** the W3C Font and Text Community Group.
* **IEC** International Electrotechnical Commission: alongside ISO, jointly responsible for the OFF specification.
* **ISO** International Organization for Standardization, ultimately responsible for the OFF specification via the MPEG Working Group.

> * **MOFF** “Microsoft Open Font Format”, meaning the same as Open Font Format but emphasizes that the specification is currently controlled by Microsoft.

Reviewer 2: Hmm, perhaps redundant, regarding "MSOT". I don't think people actually use "Microsoft open font format" (see my OFF comment) but "Microsoft Opentype" is quite often used.

Reviewer 3: MOFF is just Behdad being snarky. ;-)

Reviewer: <strike>The only place I've seen this used is by @davelab6 on the MPEG-OTSPEC list and various other places. I'm not sure it's necessary or even *quite* accurate.

> The AHG doesn't own MSOT, MS does; and the W3C CG doesn't own MOFF, ISO does.

I added the caveat "quite" above because given that the OFF is roughly just a mirror of MSOT with the names changed to reflect ISO ownership, pragmatically speaking it is more under M$ control than any other entity, but on a technicality ISO does own the copyright and official approval process, hence I don't really see the utility of saying "MOFF" rather than just "OFF" in the same way that there is clearly utility to "MSOT" as a reminder that "OT" is not really open. Perhaps "ISOOFF" would be better.

Given it has been used and causes some confusion including it in a glossary isn't completely unreasonable, but maybe if we can convince Dave that it isn't a good utilitarian abbreviation we could just drop it.</strike>

Reviewer: Scratch that this entry is just wrong. It should be "MPEG Open Font Format"

```suggestion
* **MOFF** “MPEG Open Font Format”, meaning the same as “OFF” but emphasizes that the specification is currently controlled by the ISO’s MPEG Working Group.
```

Reviewer 2: Damn, got the number wrong it is : ISO/IEC 14496-22 “Open Font Format” , not 14996-22

* **MPEG** Motion Picture Experts Group is a Working Group established by ISO and IEC to standards for “Coding of audio, picture, multimedia and hypermedia information” including fonts.
* **MSOT** “Microsoft OpenType”, meaning the same as OpenType but emphasizes that the specification is currently controlled by Microsoft.

> * **OFF** Open Font Format, a mirror of the current OpenType specification, unencumbered by the “OpenType” trademark.

Reviewer 2: I find the wording slightly strange. ISO 14996-22 is titled "... Open Font Format...", so it is an official name, rather than a "...mirror...".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **OFF** Open Font Format (ISO/IEC 14496-22), a font format specification that roughly mirrors the content the current Microsoft OpenType specification, but is unencumbered by the “OpenType” trademark.
```

Does that make more sense to you @HinTak?

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's better - perhaps even more so if you includes "ISO 14996:22" there.

* **OT** OpenType, the extension of TrueType developed by Microsoft and Adobe in the late 1990s, the current industry standard specification for producing fonts, the specification maintained by Microsoft.

> * **TT** TrueType, implying the pre-OpenType font specification, the TrueType flavour of OpenType, or the quadratic curve format.

Reviewer 2: The "...quadratic curve..." part looks a bit too much information, unless you also mention/reference Postscript /CFF and its cubic splines. Also, mentioning "Apple" would be good here. I would probably suggest getting rid of the former and adding the latter, or if you want to keep the former, add a 'See also... Postscript / CFF entries...'.

* **VOLT** [Microsoft Visual OpenType Layout Tool](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/typography/tools/volt/), a freely distributed tool for adding OpenType Layout tables to fonts.
* **WG** working group, in this context either a Working Group of the ISO or of W3C.

> * **WOFF** Web Open Font Format, a font format developed around 2010 to encapsulate a font file and metadata as a webfont; [WOFF2](https://www.w3.org/TR/WOFF2/), the updated version of WOFF with improved compression, is currently the primary format for webfonts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **WOFF** Web Open Font Format, a font format developed around 2010 to encapsulate a font file and metadata as a webfont; an updated version with improved compression known as [WOFF2](https://www.w3.org/TR/WOFF2/) is currently the primary format for webfonts.
```
